My name is Quincy Howe.
My job is to report and comment on the news for ABC, radio and television.
My assignment here in Miami is to discuss the campaign issues with Estes Keapover and
Adley Stevenson, who are our chief performers this evening.
Now there's no need to introduce the two top contenders, the Democratic presidential
nomination.
And I can let them define as well as discuss the issues, but just a brief word on the
background I think is in order.
Mr. Sanitak Keapover got off to a strong start in his primary race by winning Minnesota,
Governor Stevenson came back strong in our gun last week.
A week from tomorrow, they go before the voters of Florida, the registered voters here
in the primaries here, the week after that, another big primary in California.
So those primaries on top of the our gun won are just about bringing this primary phase
of the convention of the race for the presidential nomination and the Democratic party to the
climates, which makes this evening the time in Miami the place for these friendly rivals
to discuss the issues of the campaign.
I'm very deeply honored to find myself here as moderator and I'm also intensely nervous
because of the triple responsibility that lies upon me.
First is Senator Keapover, second to Governor Stevenson, and third to those who look and
listen in.
I must see that the time is fairly divided, that I state the issues as impartially as it
is humanly possible for me to do, and that there is a full and very discussion of the
issues.
And then there's an agreement on the format that's going to be a three minute opening statement
from each of the two gentlemen here in a five minute closing.
A toss of the coin decided that Senator Keapover would open, then Governor Stevenson, then
at the close, Governor Stevenson first and Senator Keapover closes up the whole thing.
In between there'll be freewheeling talk in which I act as a kind of a traffic cop with
power to hand out parking tickets if anyone stays too long in one place or to enforce speed
limits if they get going too fast.
And I hope there won't be any occasion to do either.
So first Senator Keapover, and if any of you want to know what he is going to talk about,
the answer is about three minutes and I hope it won't be too much more.
Thank you very much, Mr. Howard, Governor Stevenson, good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
A presidential campaign must not degenerate into a mere personal conflict.
For candidates are only as important as the ideas they represent.
Now therefore welcome this opportunity for this discussion with Mr. Stevenson.
Overshadowing all else is this morning's news of the first dropping from an American
airplane of an H bomb.
There can be no mistaking effect that we are now face to face with a double-edged possibility
of total destruction and the possession of total destructive power.
We are perhaps being dominated by the very instrumentalities which we ourselves have created.
And unless we can forge some readjustment of our organization and management of political
affairs, we shall never again live unafraid and undominated by these fearful prospects.
Unless we can successfully grapple with this, we shall never again be free in the sense
that we can make our own choices and live in confidence.
Next we must have a moral, atomic energy policy.
Second we must continue to experiment and test and develop new and extended uses of nuclear
energy.
We should however take the lead in proposing to the Soviet Union that we have an immediate
cessation of further dropping of A in H bombs when they show that they are willing to act
in good faith.
Without the protection of such an agreement, we ourselves have little choice but to continue
in the interest of our own security.
Our favorite, the so-called Baruch Plan when it was first presented.
Substantially that plan with emphasis on inspections should now be resubmitted.
I think the very dropping of this new bomb may give new hope of success in achieving such
agreements.
Substantialists, Belman everywhere, must realize that we cannot leave this destructive force
loose in the world uncurred.
We need a crash program to ensure that the nation is producing scientists, both highly
qualified and insufficient numbers, second to none in the world.
The national interest demands a truly non-political and independent, atomic energy commission.
We need a nationwide program to turn the benefits of atomic energy to peaceful uses in
our economy.
Our favorite government-sponsored program for the establishment of atomic federal projects
in the key areas throughout the country.
We must ensure that there is no private monotony in atomic energy.
Finally, we must find means of transforming this machine of total destruction into an instrument
for lasting peace.
We must turn its very terrible into the last best argument for world peace.
We cannot continue along a path, past hope and fear.
Perfect timing, Senator Kepler.
And now Governor Stevenson, the offering minutes.
Mr. Howe, you said something about the root, what's the basis, what's the principle
subject of the principle concern of our country in this campaign?
I think perhaps the senators touched upon it as I see it.
Certainly the solemnity of the time in which we live was best illustrated yesterday by
the dropping of the H-bomb in the far Pacific.
A bomb five times or more, more powerful than all of the explosive detonated by the United
States in the last war.
I thought when I read of this, not only that the future is either going to be a future
of creativity and of great abundance, or it's going to be a future of total incineration,
death and destruction, and that the United States may have to lead the way which direction
we're going to take.
I thought of the remark of the interesting phrase that President Sikarno of Indonesia used
for the spoke to the Congress the other day in which he said that he had come to the United
States.
Not just to see the great United States, not just to learn something about this center of
geography and of the balanced power in the world and the center of gravity, but because
he wanted to come here because it was the center of an idea.
It's this idea that I think is the at the heart of this campaign.
What is America about?
What does it mean in this midpoint of the 20th century when these great revolutions of
technology that have developed this bomb which have made all men neighbors, when the great
revolution of independence which has swept over Asia, the great revolution, the great
ideological revolution which threatens us from the East communism have all converged.
This I think is what we have to demonstrate and quickly.
We are great, but we are few.
We have 50% of the world's manufacturers, but only 6% of the world's population.
We have to import 50% of our raw materials.
The balance with our allies, we constitute what?
But 15% of the world, the enemy constitutes 35%.
Together we 50%.
What's the rest?
The rest is the great uncommitted peoples of the earth.
These are the peoples that we're going to contest for as long ideas as many of us are
living.
We're here witnessing this program tonight.
And it's until the United States assumes once more leadership in this world, leadership
in the direction of peace on earth until we once more can assert the moral influence that
we have enjoyed in the past.
It's three years ago we were both great and we were also we commanded confidence and we
were respected.
We were strong and we were respected.
We're not as strong today as we are that we're then nor are we as respected.
We have to recover on both scores.
Now I should very be very glad as the evening goes on here to talk a little about the H-bomb.
I've made some proposals with respect to that myself.
But I know that most of all, Mr. Howell that the what's at the center of this campaign
in my judgment is the assumption once more of leadership in the world in the direction
of the peace that has become the prayer of all mankind and most of all of our people in
this country.
Thank you, Governor Stevenson.
And I think since we've gotten into this foreign policy and bomb subject, let's stay
with it.
Senator Kiefover made a remark in his talk suggesting that perhaps we should cut down on these
H-bomb tests.
How about getting a little more practical?
What precise steps would you suggest taking from here on out, Senator?
What should we do?
These would be the rules.
Well, Mr. Howell, the matter that I said forth was that while we've always wanted
and we're anxious now to reach some agreement, we've referenced to the control of atomic
energy and for its use for key-stamp purposes for the welfare of our people, the thing is
that it's inconsistent to criticize the administration and to complain that we're not keeping up or
that we're not ahead of the Soviet Union in the making of guided missiles and atomic
energy.
And at the same time not be willing until we can get some good faith agreement from them,
not be willing to experiment and to explode or to use the bombs that we make because only
by experimenting with them can we keep ahead so that I do not think we can propose acting
unilaterally and stopping the dropping of atomic bombs as I understand my friend, Governor
Stevenson has proposed.
Do you want to go along on that line, Governor Stevenson, you've come out in opposition
to the H-bomb test?
Well, sir, I have said this.
I have said that I've pointed out that the Soviet Union has recently told us in London
that the open sky's proposal of inspection by aviation by air was fantastic, where the
words that Mr. Kruchef used.
It's apparent that we're making no progress nor have we in the past ten years towards
the step-by-step disarmament program.
Now with respect to the H-bomb, the H-bomb cannot be tested without all the world knowing
it.
This is my understanding.
I believe this is the case.
If that's so, it has the advantage of not requiring inspection to know whether or not
the enemy is complying with an agreement or is not complying with an agreement.
It has its own built-in security factor.
The Soviet Union has, unhappily, and I think it's one of the great ironies of our time.
It's now succeeded in masquerading as the friend of these uncommitted peoples is half of
the world that I mentioned, which is where rests the balance of power in the world and
where rests I think are destiny.
I think it's imperative that the United States takes some leadership towards recapturing
the confidence of these people.
What else should we do?
We could do it.
Yeah, because of the built-in factor of security, due to the fact that you cannot test an H-bomb
without it being known everywhere, is that we could unilaterally propose that we would
discontinue testing the H-bomb on condition, of course, that if our enemies did not go along
with this and do the same, we would know about it and we could resume the testing of the
H-bomb.
That this distinguishes this weapon from everything else.
It has no relationship to the guided missile, whatever.
Well, Mr. Howard, I think the difficulty is, though, that it's reputed that the Soviet
have already dropped the H-bomb from an airplane.
Of course, this test in specific, which Governor Stevenson proposed, his iron studage, should
not take place, was for the development of a new use of the weapon.
Now, we can't very well afford to fuss about not keeping up in these weapons and the
in atomic energy if we are unable to experiment with them and to see what they will do.
Now, I certainly agree that we ought to make it very clear to everyone in the world that
we are perfectly willing to devote atomic energy and our research and share it with people
when it can be shared everywhere.
Of course, they, because the war of ideas is important and we are the must be, as we've
always been, the real friends of people who want to develop their resources and get their
liberty.
But we cannot afford to allow any other power to have greater strength in atomic energy
and guided missiles than we have.
And I didn't like very much.
Frankly, the statement by Mr. Kruchev when he was in England indicating that the Soviets
were going right ahead with their missile program.
I want to see some good faith before I stop keeping the defenses of the United States strong.
Let's get on to some more of these features of the Russian new look.
This military come back and that kind of thing.
I think that you've made your position.
We got through with a bomb something about what we ought to do with the atomic energy
program and developing it for commercial purposes if we may.
Yes, I'd like very much if I could point out to the senator that the I have never suggested
post-pony development of the missile on the contrary.
I've urged the development of the missile.
This is a weapon that could be tested without anyone knowing it.
It has none of the built-in security features of knowledge and information.
Therefore, when the president said that the missile and the bomb to develop one
with the other was useless, I didn't understand it.
Frankly, no, do I think he understood me?
The missile can be developed.
It should be developed.
Or weapons should be developed so that we can keep pace with our enemies.
Indeed, we must keep ahead of them.
The what I am talking about is the most lethal, the most terrible, the most devastating,
the most ghastly weapon that has been developed on the face of the earth.
We have the power of self-suicide, a destruction of the world.
And I said that this one could be eliminated if they would agree with security,
because we'll know it if they're not.
And what's happening?
If they're not the right amount of time.
He talked about the guided missile.
I see.
Well, sorry.
The guided missile is quite different.
It's the President said it's impossible to develop a missile within a atomic or hydrogen warhead
unless you're going to experiment with it.
I think you must be right in that.
But you wanted to talk about the peacetime uses of this.
Yes, I did.
I think we ought to understand this.
There is no, you can, a missile is nothing but a carrier.
That's right.
It's like an airplane senator.
It's like a railroad train.
It delivers the goods to a target.
Goods can be an atomic warhead.
It can be an conventional TNT warhead.
It could be a hydrogen warhead.
It could be anything.
Now the development of the missile has nothing to do with the content of the explosive in the warhead.
Well, I'd understood the defense department thought that it was necessary to experiment with both of them together.
But the governor may be right on it.
I think that's a misunderstanding.
But in any event, I would like to bring up the question of what's happening to our
atomic energy commercial use program.
Six years ago and three years ago, we were either had a monopoly or we were greatly in the lead.
We were told in the time the atomic energy act of
1954 came up that the government should not even build any demonstration
reactor plants for the purpose of making electricity.
That private industry would do it all.
But we find now after a period of time that not one patent has been issued,
there's been no private development of atomic energy for commercial purposes.
No reactors have been built.
Only $36 worth of electricity has been sold from a submarine prototype plant up in New York.
The mean time the Soviet has been producing atomic energy from our electric power from the
atomic generator since May 1954.
They're building another one.
They expect to have two million kilowatts and salt capacity by 60.
And the British have 22 reactors in the process of being made.
A private industry probably rightfully says it cannot invest the money to assume this
responsibility. They shouldn't have asked for it in the first place.
So I think the times come when our
atomic energy act of 1954 must be revised so that the government can experiment and build
these reactors throughout many parts of the country.
I know the state of Florida has been doing a lot of work trying to get one established here.
Rather do not have power and coal and of course it's in places like that where they should be built.
And we must get the atomic energy commission back to the business of commercial development
and dealing with atoms and out of such matters as Dixon and Yeats.
Well I'd like to get Mr. Steeves and Governor Steeves and others some of the diplomatic features
of this new Soviet look both in connection with the downgrading of Stalin, the military cut back and
so on. There's a great deal of controversy over that. It cuts across party, across national lines.
Are we being too gullible? Tought the Russians, some people say we're too simple minded. Other
people say we aren't tough that we're we should be more kindly and we are too negative and too rigid.
I'd like to hear what you have to say about that. Governor, you've been around the world recently.
How did you find people reacted? Let me say that I should like to say to Senator that I agree with
much of what he has just said. I would point out too that nothing could be more ironic.
Then in the present contest that we're in with the Russians which I will get to which is for the
allegiance of these uncommitted peoples, these neutral peoples and that depends largely on who
is going to how that rapidly they can fulfill the promise of their revolutions, they can improve
their standard living and their well-being, they would be ironic indeed if the Soviet Union
beat the United States to the development of reactors which could be used by for power development
in these power hungry countries who are trying so desperately to to industrialize at long last.
And there I think again what the Senator implied is correct that the public in the United
States have invested somewhat $14 billion in the development of atomic and nuclear energy
and that we should be frustrated and the further development for peaceful purposes to use
abroad as well as here. Yes, and we should ever be outdone by the Soviet Union would be a
sad thing indeed. Now you asked me about the cut in the military forces of the Soviet Union,
they were ground forces. Yes, million two. It was a spectacular propaganda stroke and it's had
undoubtedly widespread effect in Asia as evidence of the peaceful ideas of the peaceful desires of
the Soviet Union. It's another reason why I think that we are going to have to come up with some
ingenious ideas if we're going to compete for their allegiance especially in the direction of peace.
I think that the cut was of no significance because of the change in the character of warfare.
Immediately after the war we had a monopoly of atomic weapons. We also had the means of their
delivery by aircraft superiority. All the Soviet Union could do was develop ground forces to
in order to envelop the continent of Europe if need be to interdict our bases. And so on now that
they likewise have the means of delivery and the weapon itself they can afford to change their
tactics which are their military structure and that they have done. They have done it also because
of its propaganda value also because it will strike a sentimental and sympathetic code in the west
where we all want to cut forces to save money especially in Western Europe and also because of its
enormous propaganda value in Asia. Now as a legislator, Senator Keifalba, how do you find your
constituents respond on these issues that we're talking about now? Other votes in these things?
Is there any popular ground swell in favor or against changes in our atomic policy?
Well, I feel and it's very much along the lines the Governor Stevenson has explained that then
the cut in the Soviet ground force indicates that they appreciate the new type of war that we
would have in the future and that probably they're directing more of their attention to it.
And I think that place is a great burden upon us and upon the chiefs of staff and the
national security council and the president to keep up with modern methods of war so that we can
put emphasis on new developments as they come along. The whole nature of war far as the parent
and the change in the last several years. But while it's quite apparent, it's probably true that
the Soviet cut was just for the purpose of transferring their manpower or getting stronger in
planes and atomic energy and cutting down on great mass land armies. I do think we ought to try
to ascertain if they are in good faith, give them an opportunity of showing some acts of good faith
like raising the iron curtain, giving the satellite the Poland and the other, the other satellite
nations an opportunity of having a free vote. I think the lines of communication must always be
kept open so that we can if there's any chance of them being in good faith act ourselves.
But I think we would be very unwise and cruelhearted to create the slasher armed forces
on the just on the basis of what they've done without knowing more about it. And I think we
ought to tell the people of the world just what our position is. Is there any kind of a step we
should take? For instance, there's a discussion now about cracking down on countries that
start trading too much and strategic goods behind the iron curtain with red China. Should we
modify our stand there? How do you gentlemen feel about that? Well, I frankly feel that I was in
Russia this past year and in the satellite nations too. There's still a whole lot of good will
between the average Russian peasant and the American citizen. They're tremendously interested in
what's going on here. I think if freedom comes to the Soviet Union, it will be through the
evolutionary process and probably not through a revolution. I think we would gain a whole lot
of goodwill and we would pressure for liberty would be stronger. If in non-strategic matters,
particularly if we could send missions with them, if we did allow some non-strategic trading,
I think we ought to try to get all the information, all the American influence, the influence of
the west behind the iron curtain that we possibly can. Now, Governor Stevenson, you have been
particularly interested in these uncommitted nations as you call them. What do you think perhaps
our changes should be toward them? The scientist speaks of Russia. How about India, Indonesia?
I think our policy has been as you suggested the moment ago, the word you suggested was negative.
I think our policy for the last three years, instead of being forward-looking, instead of taking
instead of identifying ourselves with the revolution of the rising expectations of these newly
independent nations, our attitude has been one of rigidity, one of mistrust, one of suspicion,
one of always quating everything to what we can get out of it in the sense of military commitments,
and the sense of rejection of the concept of neutralism. This has had, of course, disastrous effects
in the loss of prestige and influence by the United States. We've rested our security largely on
military packs and on military aid. The over emphasis on the military, the rigidity of our attitudes
for the most part, and so much of the dialogue that's conducted in this country has had an
unfortunate effect. Now, I think we should change that, and I'm happy to say that within the very
last few weeks there's been some evidence of a change. The Secretary of State, Mr. Dulles,
has begun to talk a little more sympathetically and understandably about neutralism. After all,
this United States was neutral for 150 years. We ought to know more about it and be more understanding
about it than anyone else. In addition to that, even now we're going to talk a little about
more flexibility with respect to aid. Under emphasizing, I hope, the military. I think these are
in the right direction. I have myself, as you perhaps know, Mr. Howe proposed that we could do a lot
to neutralize the new Soviet challenge in the economic field, which has come upon us if we were to
distribute aid, at least in part, through the United Nations rather than bilaterally.
That until we make use of these methods, which will force the Russians in turn to be responsible,
and to deal multilaterally, we will be always in this auction system of bargaining, and always
under the possibility of blackmail, of the threat, that if you don't do what we want for you,
we'll go communist. I'm going to exercise my authority here as the traffic cop and get us out of
this parking lot, where in many ways, press we should have stayed for the whole time, because
there's certainly no more important issue. I would like to express my views very briefly,
and perhaps specifically on the subject we've been talking about. I agree that we placed too
much reliance on military power. I think more specifically, we've made a mistake in letting
NATO fall apart. We haven't tried to unify it. I do not think we've properly supported the
United Nations until right recently. I do not think we've made clear our obligation in the
Middle East that we will stand by a friend, Israel, even though she may be in a tough situation,
and also try to solve the question of the refugees. I think we've played out, we talked out
of both sides of our mouths on the issue of colonialism, and have lost many of our friends in
Southeastern Asia. I think we have been letting the Soviet leaders act, and we have been reacting,
and I think that we're going to have to again return to our heritage as a nation, that we want to
help nations have the people have the right of self-determination and self-government when they're
capable of having it. Then we will have regained the respect and the admiration and the friendship
of the world when we do that. Well, I'd like to get us now onto this issue that time. Sure,
Looms lodge here in Florida, and a lot of other parts of the country too, and you both know what
that is, segregation. Suppose we start with Governor Stevenson from Illinois, and he has done very
well in the Illinois primary, although he was considered to be a little moderate on some aspects
of the segregation issue, and yet in the Chicago, you've got a very big popular vote. How do you feel,
Governor, about your stand on segregation? Do you feel that you have a stand that is going to
track wild support among colored voters and northern city dwellers in not necessarily being in too
much of a hurry? Well, sir, I think so. I don't know that my stand is novel in any way, shape or form.
I have expressed it on many occasions. I've said that the Supreme Court has expressed, I believe,
the conscience of the nation. It certainly has expressed my in this decision on desegregation.
It is also expressed what I think was inevitable. The progress that we have made towards full
the realization of full and equal rights for our minority groups has been tremendous in the past 20
years. This is another major step forward. The court has told us what must be done, and now the
lower courts are assigned the task of telling us when it must be done. I think the problem remains
as to how it is to be done. It's gratifying to me that one half, I believe, roughly one half of all of the
formerly segregated school districts in the country in two years, and it's only been two years,
are now desegregated. But little by little will come down to the hardcore. The difficult stubborn,
sticky places. These will be the deep southern states. These are major social adjustments.
I've said that these major social adjustments, like all social adjustments, require
are difficult and they require time. They also must be accompanied in this
agent day with the greatest understanding and the greatest cooperation I would hope.
And I had hoped also that the president might have intervened in this matter and seen fit to call
in. The leaders of both races in Washington to see what could be done to ease this over.
This transition is this very major and important adjustment. We have to go ahead with it. It has
to be done. That's the law. But now, Senator Kiefer, I don't imagine you'd perhaps disagree
very much with any of the opinions of Governor Stevenson, but you're from a border state. You did not
sign this southern manifesto, a court decision, a Supreme Court decision that some senators would
clear the south sign. How do you find that this stand that you're taking, which is not too far from
the Governor's defense? And how is that affecting your prospects in the southern part of the country?
Well, sir, the Supreme Court decision came right in the middle of the time I was running for
re-election in 1954 in Tennessee. And I said at that time, as I've said since, that the Supreme
Court decision is the law of the land. And any man who takes the oath as president of the United
States, I said since, must take an oath that he is going to uphold the Supreme Court, the law of
the land and the Constitution. And certainly, I wouldn't think false oath in that respect.
I want to say in the first place that it's not only in the south that we have the scrimminations.
We have the scrimminations of Mexican Americans, Oriental Americans, and many parts of the country,
Spanish Americans, and many part in their discriminations between the races and the north.
So that this matter of an equal, fair, full chance for everybody is a nationwide problem.
But of course, we do have a particular problem in the connection with the integration of the schools.
The Supreme Court has spoken, and that is the law of the land. The Supreme Court, of course,
I recognize that there are, there's going to take patience, that there are different situations
in different communities that will require some special treatment and consideration.
But I want to say as a southerner, and as one who has four bears have lived in the south for a long,
long time, that I know the south is going to stay in the mainstream of this great American life.
We have contributed much. The Supreme Court decision places the primary responsibility
upon the school boards in the south with the federal district courts acting as the referees.
And I know that our people have the intelligence. They have the enough spirit of brotherly love
and wanting to do the right thing. We can work out this problem rightly and justly
without sacrificing our public school system and without violence, without causing difficulties.
I know, and I think, Governor Stevenson and I have both expressed the fact that you,
this is something where you can't use a military coercion. We've got to appeal to the
hearts and minds and to the fairness of people. And I have a very firm conviction that our own people
have the fairness and the ability and the intelligence to handle this problem ourselves.
I do feel as Governor Collins here in Florida has suggested that the president calling a
conference of governors, calling in the school boards. Maybe people representing both races to
first keep it in perspective and to keep it out of the hands of violent people. I could do much to
help solve this matter. But it can be, and I don't think it's going to cause a disruption of our
democratic party because the winds of freedom and the demand to be equal and to have a
right to have, of course, all around the world today. Speaking of the disruption of the democratic
party, that brings up the Texas situation there where Senator Johnson did so well and the new
setup of the primary for the convention. How do you feel about that, Governor Stevenson? Would you
like to comment on that? Well, I was delighted. I think if it was a question of Governor
Schivers or Speaker Sam Rayburn and Lyndon Johnson, I think there couldn't be any question as to
what's best for the democratic party, what's best for Texas, and what's best for the United States.
And that's Sam Rayburn and Lyndon Johnson. I'd like to say too in that connection that I think
the election in Texas where the unhappy race issue again was used. And the election here in
Florida, both of these have been healthy and reassuring straws in the wind. And that anyone who uses
this issue, this all-important issue, should merely deserve political ends, is going to do us
the Union of Grave to service in this election year. I think that in addition to what the
Senator has said that the proper resolution without disorder and violence of this all-important,
perhaps most important, domestic issue of many years is imperative. It's also the fact that we
must demonstrate to the world that we mean what we say, that we practice what we profess,
and that we in this flexible government, that we have in this country, in contrast to the
autocracies, to the tyrannies, that we can settle a question of this kind without silencing the
opposition. Well, I've asked you, gentlemen, quite a number of questions. Out the perhaps some
questions you would like to ask each other, either on subjects that have come up for this evening,
or comments you might care to make on statements that one or other of you may have made earlier in
the campaign, would you like to ask Governor Stevenson a question, Senator Kekeover, and then
to turn the compliment, I don't want to do all the question asking. Well, let me say before I
ask any question, I certainly want to join in paying tribute to Senator Johnson and Speaker
Rayburn, and I'm glad that there isn't any question about where Texas is going to be in connection
with the Democratic Party. Well, I've tried not to make any attacks on Governor Stevenson or his
record, and I've regretted that he has made some on me. I think one
matter that he did discuss a good deal after Minnesota, and that's a wonderful state,
and I'd lay that in the middle of it too. I like it too. I wish there weren't so many Republicans.
Well, you carried the most Republican district in Minnesota, so not by now.
But anyway, it's a good state, and we all had a good time. I had a good time in Oregon too,
and I know you had a better time, so that's that. But I was a little bit shocked, I must say,
to find out that right afterwards that you started having a whole lot to say about the fact
that I've been absent on some votes in the United States Senate. Your figures didn't agree with me,
but you made three charges. You said that I'd been absent from votes in 1948 in the Senate,
and the trouble was I wasn't even in the Senate in 1948. That were later to one.
And the second was that I think Governor, that you should have known that the other period that
you picked out that I was in many parts of this nation having hearings,
trying to expose to the sunlight of public opinion, organized crime, criminal elements.
Many people thought we were doing a worthwhile public service. I was excused from the Senate.
I flew back during this time of a year and a half of the Senate Crime Committee for important votes,
just like I flew back from Oregon the other day in Minnesota and California for votes.
And then the third year you picked out was when I was having a life and death race for my own
re-election in 1954 in the state of Tennessee. So I was a little bit surprised at you.
I thought it necessary or proper to at least talk about this voting absenteeism as you call it,
without at least pointing out these reasons.
But I've got Mr. Davis that you got some questions or observations maybe that you would like to make.
I think that if I were a candidate, I'm sorry. I was asked to explain why it was that there were so
that the Senate had little support in the Senate. And I said that I thought possibly among his fellow
senators that possibly one reason for it was that many of them felt that he had not done as much
of the committee work as he should have and that I referred to the 83rd Congress. But I'd be
quite willing to drop the matter to Senate once. Senator Kirsto in the 83rd Congress, I believe the
question of absenteeism was covered by the congressional quarterly. And those figures of course were
not flattering to the senator. It may have been that during that period he was had to be in Tennessee
and the interest of his re-election. If so, I'm quite content with that explanation. I should
like him to understand that the occasion for my mentioning this was in response to questions.
Well, it seemed to have been the main part of an address that you made for us I could see.
I said something more important than that. I'm certain Adelaide that you were not around
the governor's chair in Springfield very much during the fall that you were running for
as a democratic nominee for the president. So when you were in a race that's very difficult to
be there very often. But the Senate was in the session when the race was on. Was it?
Oh yes, when our primaries on, our primaries are held in the early part of August so that you have to
run during May June and July. At any way you say that you were answering questions about the lack
of support in the Senate. I haven't put any effort on my pressure on my colleagues to try to
get support. I do have the support of some of my senators, some of my congressmen. I think I'll
have more before it's over. The trouble was you started earlier and they've got many of them to
sign up and agree with you. But I was glad to see in the congressional quarterly that I was tied
for second place with congressional support along with Senator Lyndon Johnson for second place.
And that's pretty good company to be in. I wonder if we could get on to another question. Now both
of you gentlemen have traveled a great deal and shaken a lot of hands and talked to all kinds of
people. I'd be interesting to find out what your sounding show of the people that you've talked to.
What interests them? What do these people that you shake hands with and you get letters from and
all at your mail? How does that run? What are the American people? Tumbled about, hopeful about,
what do you gentlemen hear from the real grassroots? Senator, before you ask me,
yes I think it's your turn. The main thing in the agricultural sections, and this is true all
over the United States. The farmer's income has gone down about 27%. Their expenses are not going
down. They've even risen. They have a fixed overhead that they must meet. So farmers,
particularly small farmers, have been having a very hard time of it. They are in favor of an
agricultural program that's going to give them a fair share of the nation's income. And in order to
get prices that will bear a reasonable relationship to what they have to pay for what they get.
That's what I've been trying to fight for. And I find particularly among the small farmers that there's
a, that we have lost a million small farmers. Small farmers are not able to stay on the land.
So that I found a good deal of interest and a proposal that I've been making for a
so-called family size farm bill to have full or 100% parity for the first
small part of a farmer's income and then have it graduated on down.
So that the small farmer can at least get some protection that he can know about.
And this is met with a great deal of a good reception. And I think if we're going to protect
the small farmer and keep that this very valuable influence in our social and economic and
political life that some special measures like this are going to have to be taken.
Governor Stevenson, I think you were due for a little time now.
Well, sir, I would say that the senator is quite right. And in many sections of the country,
especially the rural agricultural sections of the country, the farm issue. And they're very
rapid decline in farm income. The 27% drop in three years is the domestic issue of principal
concern. It is also an, it's also a concern in becoming a concern in certain industrial areas
because of the, of the effect that it's inevitably would have because of our economic
interdependence on employment in certain aspects of industry, particularly in farm implement
manufacture, where I believe farm interdependence is now down more than 20% in the first quarter of
this year. And the result is large layoffs in Chicago and in Minneapolis and various other farm
implement centers. It's also having effect on small business in the small towns, the merchant,
the farmer can't buy shoes. If he, I mean, if he can't sell, if he's caught in this cost price
squeeze as he is, he can't, his purchasing power is diminished. And obviously the effect of that
is that he's unable to buy hardware, furniture, clothing and so on in the local market. And the
small business man is suffering. Did I give you, Governor Stevenson, a chance to ask your question
senator, keep all the, perhaps I, we spent all our time in his question to you when you are
a flyaway. Did you have any other question you want to ask him? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'd
ask him when he was going back to California. I don't know what to get about. I guess we'll be out about
the same day. Well, Governor Stevenson started mentioning something that's very important.
The effect on small business, small business and middle size of business and merchants were having
a rough time of it. Their profits are there, I'm considerably, while there's big business
is up. I think we need several things and we all have a strong program to try to keep small
business in the picture. When I think that we must revise our antitrust laws, strengthen our
Robinson Patman Act S11, which Congressman Patman and I have filed, we should have a notification
period when a merger is going to take place or is to try to stop this merger effort. Small
business ought to be able to have a better situation in the tax picture to have the surtax
started 50,000. Then we need desperately some agency in Washington that will enable small business
to get some of the procurement from the defense department and others and also to furnish them
equity capital when necessary. But unless something's done for our small businesses and unless this
great merger movement, which is giving small business people stronger and stronger and worse
competition, we are going to have more and more of this country in the hands of fewer and fewer
people, which is not a good situation. The situation is serious and I think perhaps more serious
as to how many of our listeners tonight, viewers tonight, will realize especially in the
East. I believe that bankruptcies now in small business, small business failures are at a higher
rate than they have been at any time since 1941. Profits were off last year over the previous two years
by something like 66%. This is a critical matter. The senator has mentioned, I think one of the
major problems, of course, is credit. Availability of credit for them to operate, but it's a trend that
is going on and it's a serious thing and it presents very fundamental philosophical considerations
that trend towards bigness. I'd like to ask another more general question perhaps and that is both
of you have campaigned very hard in the primaries. You've used all kinds of techniques. Back in 48,
the Harry Truman did pretty well with the old-fashioned whistle stop in 52, present Eisenhower did well
with modern TV. How do you appraise these various means of reaching the public today?
Well, this is very important, this television, if you have money to buy it, we haven't had much
money to have in it. Radio, of course, newspapers, but I think there's nothing like getting out and
talking with and finding out what the people are thinking, meeting the people personally.
My friend and Governor Stevens has taken that up. I saw where he was shaking hands with a wax
model down in the store the other day. Tempted. Found a very tempting.
Well, I just say that you've been doing better recently than I have.
I think in addition, Mr. Howe to the what Sunder said, the problem of the use of these
media is a very cute one. It's going to get a major test in the forthcoming campaign. Obviously,
the cost of television on any large scale is very, very high. Yet that is the medium that reaches
the most people. And the hour is always an hour, and even though it seems like no time at all,
the time has now come, the hour has not, but the time for the discussion has run out and the
summation has come. Each of you has five minutes, as you know, to sum up under a general heading
of why I am a candidate, and as I explained earlier, Toss of the coin gave Governor Stevenson
the chance to put his statement first, Senator Keith, all the second, and now we will hear first
from the Governor Stevenson in the first of the summations in five minutes why I am a candidate.
I don't think that anyone, Mr. Howe, runs for President or should run for the presidency of the
United States in this age and day, just to serve a personal ambition, or just because you want
the job or would like the work. I think you run for President because you have profound
convictions about the principles of your party, that you have profound convictions about the
state of the Union and the world in which we live, and that you have some idea at least about what
should be done about it. When you have those in combination, and you also are beset by many
many leaders of your party, as well as the rank and file, to undertake this most responsible,
this most responsible task in democratic society, I think you do it and you don't spare yourself.
You don't spare yourself from the body. I, your body from the back. I felt that I had all of those
circumstances in combination, and in addition to that, I had strong convictions about some of the
things that I think are wrong with our country. I have a feeling that the President of the
Government, the Eisenhower administration, is basically a single interest government, that it is
manned and staffed at the top of the policy-making positions, and proponderably by people
representative of only one interest in our community, call it big business, call it big money,
call it big industry, or call it what you please. And the government to be successful must be
representative and reflect the interests of all of our people, and that this government does not.
I felt that, and that my party, traditionally, has been the party of all the people, and that it
was the best instrument to bring that about. In addition, I felt very strongly about a variety of
issues of which we have mentioned here, of which I should like to mention more, the conservation
of our resources, the development of our resources, about the Bill of Rights, about our liberties,
if you please, and the abuses that they have suffered in late years. And countless other domestic
issues, which I'm afraid time does not permit me to mention, but transcendent and more important
even than all of those, is the problem of war and peace in the world. We have this great domestic
issue of the relationship, the tensions that are rising, unhappily between the races in this
country which we must master, we just must master. We have an addition to that, this crisis in the
world, this new threat, this new challenge from the Soviet Union. I don't think that we're
faring well in the Cold War, and I think that the reasons are relatively obvious, and that until
we can, once more, until the image of America is clear and distinct and decisive, until the
uncommitted peoples, until the underprivileged, underdeveloped, unhappy peoples of the world,
real, who realize that hunger, disease, and the want and oppression are not the immutable destiny
of man, and that we understand that, and we're sympathetic, and that we, the United States,
of creature, of revolution, child of revolution, is their friend, that we will have trouble,
and that we also have to, to not only recapture their confidence, but in addition to that,
we must also make it transparently clear that we are going to continue strong, that we are going
to continue resolute, and that we likewise will never be one to refuse to negotiate, to refuse to talk,
to refuse to meet our enemy's halfway, be it in Egypt now, be it a meeting now, of our foreign
ministers to see what can be done, to resolve the threats that hover over that eastern Mediterranean
in Israel. I have spoken hurriedly, and not too carefully, Mr. Howe, but I can summarize my feeling
that the undertaking to run for president at this time is a, as some, an undertaking is a human being
can attempt. I have done it thoughtfully, I have done it perhaps advisedly because I have done it before,
and I did it under circumstances which gave me satisfaction. I conducted a campaign that I think
myself and my party. I would hope that I might be able to do it again for reasons that I have
indicated and that I feel very deeply. Thank you very much, Governor Stevenson, and now you have
the same opportunity, Senator Keefe, over to address yourself to the same subject and tell us why
you were a candidate. Well, Mr. Howe, the first became interested in 1952, because I've been in the
House of Representatives and the United States Senate for some time, and there were a lot of things
that I wanted to try to do that I thought were important. One of the particular things that
that that time was that it found that organized crime and the criminal element had infiltrated into
politics and to our life and economic life, badly affecting our country, and I wanted our government
to take as strong a position as possible to rid the nation of this element and to keep them under
control. Much has been done, but I think a whole lot more needs to be done and a whole lot is the
federal responsibility. And then in the American tradition and for the sake of a secure and
wholesome economy, I think we must reestablish a fair balance between industry and business,
agriculture and labor, with each receiving his fair share of the national income. Farmers undoubtedly
have been penalized in the last three years. I want them to get a fair price for their products,
and I'm especially interested in working for the welfare of the little farmer, so we won't lose
this very valuable part of our American life. Now, I think we must see to it that labor and labor
unions can work and organize under a fair labor relations law, and the interest of that will be
fair to labor and to management and to the public too. I don't think the taft hardly law is such a law.
It denies a union protection to a great many people. I think it ought to be drastically revised and
rewritten in many respects. And then I've always been interested in the welfare of small business
for a long time. I think we must protect in many ways that I talked about a little while ago with
a small and the middle-sized businessman and the merchant against the avalanche of economic
concentration, which is coming up in this nation today. I'm very much interested in social security
and old age assistance legislation. I've worked for them ever since I've been in public life.
I want us to amend our social security law at this session of Congress, if possible, who
tell you those who are totally and permanently disabled at 50 years of age. And we must see that our
old age assistance laws are extended and that the determents are taken out of the way so that our
elderly citizens can live with dignity and without want in their last years. I'm interested very much
in education. I want us to as long as we have a single child who doesn't have an educational
opportunity. As long as our teachers are underpaid, I feel that we do have a very important challenge
in which the federal government must play a part. I have of course been interested in resource
development and I want our federal government to play its part in trying to see that great projects
like the Southern and Central Valley floor of project are carried on that rivers of our, the water
of our rivers are harnessed for the benefit of our people for irrigation and for power. We must
keep this in nation of increasing opportunities for all of our people. And I feel also that in the
world today that if we would just use our spiritual and economic influence, our great strength as a
nation with all of our ties to many other nations and interests of peace, that we can have peace with
honor in our lifetime. And that's very important to the young people of this nation, to all of us.
I feel in the first place we must take effective steps to hold together the people who believe in
freedom, who believe in democracy and NATO in united nations. Also we must take a firm position
against colonialism and be a helper to people who are trying to get self-government because they're
doing just exactly what we did 175 years ago. We must make our position crystal clear in all parts
of the world, like in the Middle East. I think we must formalize and have a non-aggression
tax with offer them to little Israel into the Arab nations and help solve the refugee problem.
We must meet this new Russian smile. We must have a flexible foreign policy so that we can
use our best ambassadors, our best means, our best tradition for the purpose of trying to bring about
peace. In the final analysis, it seems to me that our national security rests not only on our armed
forces, but equally and perhaps even to a more important extent. It resides in our great
conception of government, our belief in democracy and in human freedom. It resides in our
bill of rights and in the Constitution. These are weapons just like other weapons, and if we use
them we can move and stir the hearts of people everywhere. These are all things that we want,
like Sir Thomas Moore said for those things for which we pray, let us have the grace and
strength to the labor. I want to labor for these things and I would like to leave the American people
in trying to get them. That's the reason I want to be president. Thank you. Thank you both.
Very much, Senator Keefeauver and Governor Stevenson, they're especially gratified that the
emphasis you both put on world affairs and I hope the listeners and viewers enjoyed it as much as
I did. I think it's the most important feature of the campaign. I'm glad you took the time on it.
You know the people you've been in touch with them and the fact that you have had this first hand
inside into the way the voters feel and still would like to have given them a whole time to
peace and international affairs. That's one of the most hotening signs of this evening's discussion.
So this is Quincy Howe with Senator Keefeauver and Governor Stevenson saying good night from
studios of WTWTBJ in Miami.
This is the ABC television network.